[Music]
-
there's two cups a tiny still there
probably about six seven weeks old
[Laughter]
the reserve is home to 40 lions living
in three separate prides the quota Gore
pride is the largest and they're all
known by name the oldest female is
called nabob she has two five-year-old
daughters now she's a grandmother and
the koi Tagore pride has a third
generation it's one of nabu's daughters
who was given birth to these young comes
these little guys are the grandchildren
of the first lioness that I ever got to
know here in Sunbury he's now really old
female he was called noble which means
one in sambucas she used to have one
bloke black spot on her nose yeah and I
see she's still very much an important
presence in this pride and sticks around
the central area of Samburu in fact she
will definitely be having some contact
with these Cubs
it's exactly what supper had hoped for
the reserves newest arrivals are just in
time for high season this is a wonderful
thing
oh yes so sweet
[Music]
another warthog this time a huge male
with deadly tusks
she needs to get close before she
attacks the bushes provide the perfect
cover
[Music]
mission accomplished
now she must protect her kill the boar
is as big as she is it takes all her
strength to drag it into cover
it's slow an exhausting work
[Music]
a hidden island is the perfect place to
defend her kill
[Music]
she calls mojo into feast
after the meal a rare opportunity for
mum and her cub to relax
[Music]
Africa is already in picked up if
there's something different on the route
he's a little bit wary of it at the
moment he was actually cool into it just
now but he's signed to make his way in
slowly just to see what it is
Lions sense of smell is good but their
sharp eyes and hearing help them to hone
in on prey it's interesting because they
approaching it from behind because they
know the scary bits in the front where
the ears off because when they when they
do come across game especially with
zebras they'll sometimes bite the cubs
and they use a front hooves to actually
kick them so it's good that they go in
behind
[Music]
so they've just open it now they've
realized that there's actually elephant
dung inside so be interesting to see how
they react with the elephant cuz he's
actually got meat inside of him in the
wild lions regularly go days between
meals if Africa and Alico want their
lunch first they must take on this
strange-looking elephant when a pride
hunt together they are one of the most
successful of the big cats making a kill
about one in every three to five
attempts I took both mines now on the
kill once they open it up and they
realize it's actually meat they'll start
getting quite possessive over it
even though Alika hunted it just like in
the wild it's Africa the male who steps
in to claim the lion's share usually the
dominant boy will have he'll usually
grab the whole kill for himself and
stand they will sit there and growl and
the rest of the boys will make their way
in really slowly because males are not
willing to share females are a lot more
willing to share when it comes to food
when Lions feast males can eat up to 15
percent of their body weight in a
sitting their behavior changes a lot
when they have meat they go from a cute
cuddly little lion to the savage beasts
and that's what we want them to do for
that in order for them to carry on they
need to have these skills and it might
just look like a play of the bunch of
grass at the moment but for them this is
stimulating them in every aspect that we
need them to
[Music]
on this morning the pride is heading for
a woodland where there is more cover and
more animals to hunt it's a long journey
for the exhausted Cubs
[Music]
for the weakest male it's a real
struggle to keep up he's trying but
slowly he gets left behind
[Music]
this is a brutal world the lioness is
simply cannot wait if they don't keep
hunting and eat soon they too will
become weak and then there'll be no hope
for any of them
warthogs are a valuable catch at this
time of year the lives of the Cubs
depend on a successful outcome
while one lioness slowly creeps forward
another approaches from cover
[Music]
[Applause]
it's been a while since I last kill and
all the hungry pride pile in
[Music]
all that is except one a mile away a
young life is fading away the kill has
come too late for him but desperate
times require desperate measures
this herd contains cars easier targets
[Music]
but how to reach them
the adults encircle their yard
it's an impenetrable wall of gray
a few exhausted stragglers are still
arriving one of them is alone
[Music]
but it's too big for the minds
this one looks a little smaller a
[Music]
[Applause]
solitary lion stands no chance but the
whole pride is here there are 30 of them
and their specialist elephant hunters
[Music]
this elephant will feed the whole pride
for at least a week
[Music]
you